---
date: '2023-01-12T18:04:04.243Z'
title: PyGame Tutorial
tagline: Game Development
preview: >-
  Python PyGame library is used to create video games. This library includes
  several modules for playing sound, drawing graphics, handling mouse inputs,
  etc. It is also used to create client-side applications that can be wrapped in
  standalone executables. This PyGame tutorial will help to learn PyGame from
  the basics all the up to more advanced game developing. Code Snippets,
  Explanations, Video Explanation, and more will be available. 
image: >-
  https://media.geeksforgeeks.org/wp-content/uploads/20210608172359/PythonPygameTutorialmin.png
---
# PyGame Tutorial

>> INTRODUCTION
>>> 1. Introduction to PyGame 
>>> 2. Getting started with PyGame
>>> 3. How to Install PyGame
>>> 4. Install PyGame on MacOs
>>
---
>> Getting Started
>>> PyGame – Import and Initialize
>>> How to initialize all the imported modules in PyGame?
>>> How to create an empty PyGame window?
>>> How to get the size of the PyGame Window?
>>> Allowing resizing window in PyGame
>>> How to change screen background color in Pygame?
>>> How to Change the Name of a Pygame window?
>>> How to set up the Game Loop in PygGame?
>>> How to change the PyGame icon?
>>> Pygame – Surfaces
>>> Pygame – Time
>> 
---
>> Drawing Shapes
>> Pygame – Drawing Objects and shapes
>>> Python | Drawing different shapes on PyGame window
>>> How to draw a rectangle in Pygame?
>>> How to draw a rectangle with rounded corners in PyGame?
>>
---
>> Event Handling
>> Pygame – Event Handling
>>> How to add Custom Events in Pygame?
>>> Pygame – Input Handling
>>> How to get keyboard input in pygame?
>>
---
>>
>> Working with Text
>>> Pygame – Working with Text
>>> Python | Display text to PyGame window
>>> How to create a text input box with Pygame?
>> 
---
>> 
>> Working with images
>>> Python | Display images with PyGame
>>> Getting the width and height of an image in Pygame
>>> How to Rotate and Scale images using PyGame?
>>> Pygame – Flip the image
>>> How to move an image with the mouse in PyGame?
>>> How to use the mouse to scale and rotate an image in PyGame?
>> 
---
>> 
>>> PyGame Advance
>>> How to Create Buttons in a game using PyGame?
>>> Python – Drawing design using arrow keys in PyGame
>>> Python – Moving an object in PyGame
>>> Python | Making an object jump in PyGame
>>> Adding Boundary to an Object in Pygame
>>> Collision Detection in PyGame
>>> Pygame – Creating Sprites
>>> Pygame – Control Sprites
>>> How to add color breezing effect using pygame?
>>> Playing audio files in Pygame
>> 
---
>> Exercises, Applications, and Projects
>>> How to add color breezing effect using pygame?
>>> Snowfall display using Pygame in Python
>>> Rhodonea Curves and Maurer Rose in Python
>>> Creating start Menu in Pygame
>>> Tic Tac Toe GUI In Python using PyGame
>>> Snake Game
>>> 8-bit game using pygame
>>> Bubble sort visualizer using PyGame
>>> Ternary Search Visualization using Pygame in Python
>>> Sorting algorithm visualization: Heap Sort
>>> Sorting algorithm visualization: Insertion Sort
>>> Binary Search Visualization using Pygame in Python
>>> Building and visualizing Sudoku Game Using Pygame
>> 
---
